Hello and welcome to another Java tutorial.
We're going to continue our discussion on Eclipse IDE External Tool and how to set up the native image
compiler for our Java application as an external to eclipse.
So we said that you go here and click on this new button and then you create give it a name here.
I'm just giving it Native Image 17 to remind myself that this is from VMs 17 and then there are a few
tabs here main refresh, build environment and common right.
So main means basically main is the execution.
First of all, what binary what native application or external application are we going to execute?
And we say that we want to point these to the native image binary which is inside the home lieb svn
sub vm being and then native image.
And obviously you can click on the browse file system to look for it.
And then working directory, this is where we said that the way this works is that eclipse.
When you run an external tool, eclipse creates a shell process behind the scenes in the background
and then runs that.
And we know that any terminal process or a shell process has to be has to happen in a working directory,
right?
Whenever you run something in a terminal, you are always inside a working directory and that's where
you are.
So we said that Eclipse IDE organizes the class files inside the beam directory in your project folder.
Right.
If you're using Maven, which I will show you an example, Maven actually sets up or puts the compiled
classes inside a directory called Target.
And then inside that there is a directory called classes, right?
So all the eclipse puts in Bean and then Maven is target classes.
And the reason we point this, working directly to the bean because Native Image basically operates
on the class file that has the basically that has the main method, right?
So it doesn't operate on the source file, it operates on the class file.
And then and then in order to specify the classifier, you have to give it a fully qualified name and
a native image.
Consider that from the either you have to specify manually the class path or from the working directory
java type name.
We looked at the eclipse as environment variables and we said that Java type name, it returns the fully
qualified name of the class file.
Right, which is very important because if your main class is inside the package, then you have to
give the native image, the fully qualified name.
And then and then after that we've seen that previously after the native image.
You have to also specify the hyphen, keep the class pass, and we will do it if our project has dependencies.
Because when you point a native image, the bean directory, it only sees the class files that are inside
the current project it is not aware of basically.
Basically the class fires that come from the dependencies, like a jar file or other projects inside
your eclipse's workspace.
Now if you don't specify the hyphen p parameter for the native image, obviously by default it assumes
that the hyphen CP dot, which means the current directory.
That's why we are pointing this working directly to the bean directory because that's the where all
the classes are in Eclipse project.
So that's the class path.
But that only works for the classes of the current project.
Again, if we have dependencies, we have to specify them for with the hyphen, CPP, flag or argument
for a native image.
And then you can give it.
Tell the native edge where to put the compiled file and what to name it.
Right.
If you if you don't specify any output name by default, native image uses the name of the type, whatever
you put for the name of the class.
But all the letters are lowercase if you.
But you can manually specify the name of the output file as well and then puts the binary in the working
directory.
Remember when the native image compiles your file?
The result is going to put back in the working directory, which is the bean right, i.e. assumes way
too bad.
You can specify absolute path to right.
So here I'm I'm telling it the output.
Give it this name, put it in this directory.
Right.
Actually, I'm not sure if this works for the most recent version of the native image.
We can try that if it compiles the Java project and puts the output in the native directory here.
Because I'm telling it from the working directory which is bean go one level up, dot dot go inside
the native directory and then create this executable file.
Right, a file that has this name.
I mean we will try this to see if this is still works in the older versions of the native images.
This used to work, I'm not sure in the most recent version also works or not.
So let's head to Eclipse.
Now this is.
This is our Java native image.
So far we've been creating a directories that are not part of our Java project CRC and packages and
we manually compiled our application to native executable binary.
But now we want to make things much simpler and we want to basically use an eclipse.
Right.
And basically, let's see, we want to use set up an external tool, let's say hello world from Java
in and external tool in Eclipse IDE.
All right, so we do this and obviously now this is part of our Java project.
So Eclipse already compiled this puts the compiled file in the Bing directory which is a mirror mirror
of the Z.
Right.
And we can also run this right so we can go and say run as Java application and we get the result,
right?
So Java development Java compilation is very fast because Eclipse IDE compiler is very fast.
But now after we develop our Java application, we want we want to compile this and then we want to
select a and again in your Java project, you might have multiple classes that have the main method.
So any of these classes can be selected as the entry point to your job application, which is very neat.
And what we want to do, we want to create a native, an external tool that we just select which class
is our main method, right?
We select it in this visual view, in this tree view, and then the native image puts or selects this
class as the main class.
Right, for the entry point of the application.
That's why we're trying to use a set of external tool using the internal environment variables of the
eclipse.
Then if we select different files that command that runs the native image changes because the internal
environment variables of the eclipse are evaluated based on what you select, for example, in this
preview.
So let's say hello from a test class to a main method that data.
Right?
All right, so let's create a new directory, which I'm not going to select it as part of my Java project.
That's why I'm not selecting it to be a package.
Right.
Java package means it's it's a it's supposed to have a source file and it's going to be on the class
path and the Eclipse compiler will compile and put the results in the Bing directory, which is a mirror.
But here I don't want that.
So I just want to create a directory that is not a Java package.
So let's call this native.
And right now it's empty.
So I'm going to select my test class and I want to set up an external tool.
So external tool configuration, I have already set it up.
This is pointing to the bin directory of my Java project.
And it's pointing to the native image.
So note that this is the older version of the native image and I'm going to browse the file system and
Java virtual machines.
VM The most recent version as of today is 22.1, right?
And then contents home and in lib and then svn substrate, VMM and then bean and then native image.
This is the executable and this is the most recent version of the graph where I'm pointing it to the
Bing directory and then I'm telling it compile the Java application.
So again, note that this we're using an internal variable of the Eclipse Project location.
What this means is that when I select a Java a source file here, let's say test class this will replace
this project location will be replaced by the absolute path of the project that this source file belongs
to.
So if I have multiple projects, I select any class from any Java file or any class from any of those
projects.
This external tool will automatically recognize which project it's belonging to.
Right?
So it points there working directory to the correct Bing directory.
And then I'm telling it.
First of all, we can also manually tell it, see hyphen cpp dot because the working directory is where
the classes are.
Right?
So the class path by default is going to be dot java type name.
That's the fully qualified name of the class file that has the main method.
Remember, that's not the name of the source file, that's the name of the class file and that's the
fully qualified name.
So it's not just test.
And right now we are we belying this.
Our main class belongs to a package java native image.
Right.
So this this at runtime when I execute this external tool, this string java type name will be replaced
by Java underscore native underscore image dot test class and I'm specifying the output file and again
the same the name of the executable.
I'm setting it to be the name of the fully qualified name and obviously it's going to be lowercase and
I'm telling you to go one level up, go inside the native, because once we go one level up from the
bean directory, remember all these relative paths, dot or dot dot R with respect to the working directory,
once we go one level up from the bean directory, we are back in the Project Root, which is Java Native
Image and I want to go into the native image.
Right.
So we can also look at the show command.
I've already selected this class that Java, so you can tell me what command is going to be executed
when eclipse creates a shell process.
So library georgia virtual machine all the way to native image executable hyphen zip dot and this is
with respect to the beam director of the project and in the fully qualified name of the class Java name
image native image test class.
This is the fully qualified name of the class that has the main method and that's the one I selected
in this preview.
Right?
So if I select different source files here that have a public class, this will automatically change.
And then we're telling it to put it in the output, go one level up, go into native directory and create
a executable file that has this name, Java Native Image Test Class.
All right.
So this can quickly tell you whether this your substitution works or not.
So just close this.
All right.
That's the moment of truth.
We're going to run our native image 17 on this test class.
So let's run these.
Let's see.
Or I googled VM native image generating the next dot native java native image test class so it's generating
the executable initializing version info crawl VM 22.1.
So this is the latest version we're using.
So it's starting to compile and okay, it's compiling building universe parsing methods in lining methods.
Let's see if this succeeds or not.
Compiling methods.
And finished.
And if we refresh.
Now you see inside the native, we have this executable and a build artifact which tells us we that
it created an executable and it puts it basically the relative path.
So basically in this build artifact, THC, it tells you from the working directory that the native
image was run and we know that the native to the working directory was the bean directory of our Java
application or the Java project tells me that I created an executable and put it here, which is one
level up inside the native directory inside the Java native.
Now I can show that obviously this works.
So let's open up a terminal right inside our eclipse ID in this native directory.
And obviously my fish shell is running on top of the terminal.
So I'm right now the terminal is inside this native, right?
So all I have to say I have to I can't tell dot forward slash job on native image test class and this
is my executable file and hello world from Java and external to the eclipse ID all right now the power
of basically this external tool and the fact that we were using the environment variables of the eclipse
IDs that now I can quickly select another class that has the main method right in this tree view and
run my external tool.
And I don't need to do anything else because eclipse idea automatically changes that shell command based
on which file.
Now it's telling me I'm actually compiling the test class to.
So it's very quick.
Quick.
So you just select what which one you want to compile.
And again, a single Java project can have multiple executable and multiple classes that have the main
method.
And you can run your native image on any of those and create multiple executable outputs.
Right.
And that makes your development very powerful because see, we took only one for like a few seconds,
2 seconds, and now we get another executable.
Let's go back to our terminal and now we're going to say Java, native class test class two and it says
hello from test class two, main method.
So we, we developed one Java application very quickly.
That Java project has two classes that have main methods and we told the native image which when it
compiles which class has the main method or basically which class is the entry point to the application.
Right.
And again, we are taking advantage of the powerful external tool features that Eclipse provides because
then we can write a relative or basically agnostic strings that when we run the external tool, the
eclipse substitutes this environment variables with the correct values right, which is very powerful.
Now this works and the next thing that we want to do is look at the dependencies.
So far
the idea is that we set the working directory to been.
Right.
But we don't need to do that.
So I'm going to let's duplicate this.
So the duplication works.
Every every setting is the same.
But instead of a working directory, I'm going to tell it.
Project location.
All right.
And then.
But if I run this, this is going to fail.
Because the class path is not set.
Because when the fully qualified name of this class is returned, it's it should be a relative to the
class path.
Whereas, whereas the project location is not the class path.
Right, the classes are inside the being directory.
So what we can do, we can actually use one of the environment variables that we previously see, and
that's the project class path.
All right.
And then we give it the selected file.
And then now we know that the native directory is inside the project location.
So we use one dot from the current directory instead of right.
So apply show command.
Everything looks works fine.
As you can see, hyphen CPP already works fine.
So hyphen CP works fine.
So no problem there.
So close.
Close.
Now let's.
Let's delete the previously compiled files.
Select.
Select one of these.
Go back here.
I'm going to select the second one and run and hopefully this also works fine.
So native image compiling the Java native image test class so everything seems to look fine.
Virgin Food 22.1.
Garbage Collector Serial GC.
So is going to quietly compile our application.
Building universe, parsing and lining.
Now what I'm going to do.
I am going to.
Uh.
So this works fine.
This finished?
Let's look at our native directory.
Let's refresh these and we have our executable file, and then that Java test class is still works fine,
but we change the external to right external tool now is in the project directory.
And then we explicitly told the native image what is the class path, which is the recommended way.
The reason is that now if we have the dependency, the first approach would not work.
So if you look at the native image 17 here, we pointing to the Bing directory and then we say that
the class path is here dot which means the bean which is correct.
But if we our project has dependencies, this approach is not going to work.
Whereas this approach that we pointed to project location and explicitly give it the project class path
will always work because this class path adds all the directories and Eclipse is aware of what are the
dependencies of your Java project.
Now we can put this to the test, so let's delete these.
And what I'm going to do, I'm going to edit my working set.
All right.
And then I'm going to bring another project, let's say this one Dev Java.
And inside this I have a let's say class, right?
Let's say let's say inside I have this core class.
Right?
So it has something and I can go ahead and in test class, let's create a car, car, car, new car.
Now, obviously at the moment is probably not going to recognize this.
So what we're going to do, we're going to right click on our project Build Path.
Configure Build Path.
Now on the class path, there is this dev, that Java, right?
So if I go back to the build path, configure build path and we can go to this projects tab in the Java
build path.
Or you can go to project references and give it a dependency.
So projects may refer to other projects in the workspace space, so you can just go to project references,
dev, Java and what this does, it actually puts that project reference to the build path or the class
path, right?
And then when Eclipse runs, the runs, the run, anything, it automatically puts the beam directory
of this other Java project on the class path.
So let's see if I go back and look at my external tool.
This one, look at the show command line.
You see there is this.
Uh.
Let's see.
So Java native image being.
Well, it's not only class, so let's try to see if we can compile.
All right.
So in order to put this on.
So I think let's let's try this.
So right now it's the being director of the other projects is not on the class path, but we gave it
a reference.
Right.
So
all right, I'm going to actually cancel it because so when we when you use a project reference, you
can then quickly use the other types.
All right, let's see.
So it doesn't recognize that.
Uh.
All right, so let's go back to Java Build Path and the class path.
We add a project from Workspace, this one.
Okay, okay.
And now we're going we can import this car type from dev java.
Right.
So instead of project references, you want to put them on the class path or module path here we just
put it on the class path in the Java build, go to the projects and then you can select the class path,
click add and then you can select any project that you have in the workspace as a dependency.
All right.
In the project references.
This is empty for now.
All right.
And then if we say car.
Car.
New car.
It's going to.
Yeah, we're going to say that the price is, let's say, 100.
And then see out car.
So this car is coming from the other Eclipse project.
Run.
Uh, so we had some static initializes, they're called.
And this is just the default twisting of the car, right?
So we have a dependency.
Now, if we select this and run our first native image, which specifies the class path only as being
directory.
Let's see if this works.
So this class is going.
This is most likely is going to fail because because the class pass doesn't include this dependency.
So let's see what happens.
All right.
Building universe parsing methods in lining methods.
So.
So far it's going well.
Let's see what happens.
And it looks like it works.
That's very interesting.
All right.
So let's go ahead and try to run this.
We get an exception.
Java Lang, no class.
They found error.
So it looks like in the most recent version of LLVM.
It goes ahead and compiles.
But, um.
But then at runtime you get an exception, which is really not that.
I think there's probably an option that you tell it that if you don't find any class at compile time,
then fail.
We will look at this, but for now it succeeds.
But then the runtime throws an exception that I can't find this class at runtime.
Right.
So what we want to do is to go back and run our second configuration, which is explicitly a specifies
the project class path and it clips already is aware of all the dependencies of this Java project,
which is very nice thing to have.
So we don't really need to care about.
We don't really need to care about or worry about figuring out which are the dependencies of the Java
project, especially if you're using Maven.
You might have lots of lots of dependencies.
That's something that I will show you in the future lectures.
So this is going to recompile and then hopefully this time it's going to work fine.
Because right now we explicitly give the native image, the dependencies.
All right, this the compilation finish.
Let's refresh.
Go to our terminal and let's execute the last command.
And now it works, right?
So again, the idea is that Eclipse is already aware of all the dependencies of the class path of your
Java project.
So definitely take advantage of this internal variable project class path and obviously also this Java
type name that returns the fully qualified name.
I believe this is the most important part of using Native Image because once you set this up one time,
it's very easy to use it a lot because you just select whatever class that has a main method and run
your native image and everything should work just fine.
So I hope you really enjoy this lecture.
Please stay tuned and I've seen the next one.